---
layout: article
title:  "The Othopolity cosmological principle, and the Natural distribution law"
categories: semantic social data article complex networks text mining
published: true
---

## Abstract
Together with the Isotropy and Homogeneity there is another cosmological principle: Orthopolity.
From it, we derive the natural distribution law.
Orthopolity is the equal distribution of resources along containers with diverse quantities of it.
The Natural Distribution Law, where the frequency of a container is inversely proportional to the quantity of resources it holds, yields a power-law.

## Introduction
Things tend to be more numerous when the conditions for it abound.
One may argue that, of course, if there is space for more, there will be a tendency for it be more.
And it is true, and the consequences of this simple observation are profound and yield a ubiquitous natural law.
For example: there are more buttons in your computer than screens, more flies than elephants, more bits than bytes stored in one device.

It follows that when the medium in which the units exist does not impose restrictions, the distribution tends to follow a power law.
There are many models and theories on why it is so.
Here I argue with simple geometric and algebraic arguments that it is a Natural Law on its own, steeming from the fact that in this universe there are things and quantities.
I also provide a computer model and tools to observe the phenomenon and its mathematical consequences.

One of these properties to be observed is that in real systems, the medium imposes restrictions, and the power law distorts in many ways. You can think of this distortion as being caused by some sort of "friction", and the distortion itself being a "friction coefficient function". Examples:
* Zipf's law where the number of short words (and more frequent words) is restricted by phonetic diversity. In this case the frequency respects word size ranking and not word size itself.
* Air trafic might get difficult in airports if there are too many flights. Also: if an airport has too few flights, it might cease to exist.
* When its crowded, more people makes it more difficult to move around, preventing more people from coming in.
* Extremes often yield restrictions, and distort the power law. Pareto, for example, is a power-law with a cutoff of $$x > x_{min}$$.
* When there is an optimum quantity for the container, the distribution tends to have a peak, often leading to the bell curves seen for example in height and weight of specific species.
* When many probability distributions are summed, the result is a normal distribution, as seen in the central limit theorem.

A geometric representation of this natural law is based on things, or a box, in one big thing, or a bigger box.
Consider your house or your building or neighborhood.
There are many things in it, many rooms, many people, many insects, many unicelular organisms, etc.
The smaller these things are, the more of them you tend to have, i.e. the more they tend to be frequent.

Is nature respecting some sort of minimum action principle again?

## Nomenclature

From now on:
$$u$$ is a unit, a container, $$u_i$$ is unit i, $$U=\{u_i\}_1^N$$ is the set of all N units.
Think of $$u$$ as a room, a person, a city, a country, a planet, a star, a galaxy, a universe, a word, an idea, a tecnological device, etc.

$$r$$ is a resource, $$r_j$$ is resource j, $$R=\{r_j\}_1^M$$ is the set of all M resources.
Think of $$r$$ as a quantity of space, a quantity of time, of information, food and water, air, light, matter, power, knowledge, health, war, money, etc.

$$q(i, j) = u_i(r_j)$$ is the quantity of resource $$r_j$$ in unit $$u_i$$.

$$m(j, i) = r_j(u_i)$$ is the quantity unit $$u_i$$ holds of resource $$r_j$$.

Thus, $$q(i, j) = m(j, i) = u_i(r_j) = r_j(u_i)$$.

We can also define $$q(I, J)$$ as an abstract totality (or total quantity) of a resources available, $$q(i,J)$$ as the quantity of all resources unit `u_i` has, $$q(I,j)$$ as the quantity of resource `r_j` all units have.

One might probably remove $$u$$ and $r$$ altogether and work the algebra with $q$, $i$, and $j$ only.
The variables $u$ and $r$ are useful in order to address them in the diversity they might hold. The universe or system considered might have units $u_1$ and $u_2$ subtantially different. The same goes for resources $r_1$ and $r_2$.

## Postulates

1) 
If the resource `r(u)` can be quantified, the more resource `r(u)` a unit `u` has, the less frequent \(or improbable\) `p(u)`. In general terms:
$$p(u) \propto F(1 / r(u)) \propto F(k * r(u) ^ {-\alpha}) \propto  F(a + k * r(u) ^ {-\alpha})$$.

2) The postulate 1) holds even if the resource `r(u)` is multidimensional and nonlinear.

3) The $$\alpha$$ is related to the underlying resources in which the observed units are embedded.

## Mathematical description

Be $$x_i$$ resources of type `i` and $$c_j$$ containers numererated with `j`.
Each $$c_j$$ contain a quantity of the resource $$x_i$$: $$c_j(r_j) = q_{ji}$$.
Conversely, one might say that each resource $$x_i$$ has a quantity in a container $$c_j$$: $$x_i(c_j) = q^{-1}_{ij}$$.

The number of containers 

## Intuition

### Boxes

### Sound

### Words in a language

### People in a city

### People and culture

## Conclusions
The power-law distribution is a "Natural Distribution", sister to the Normal distribution to which it contrasts.

### Further work
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/isoquantcurve.asp
